[digital jingle]
Léa: Hi.
Welcome to this EarSketch video.
My name is Léa.
And today we'll be talking about
one of the most used functions
in EarSketch: fitMedia.
A function in programming
is like a function in math.
It takes some inputs
called parameters
and converts them
into outputs.
The function we're interested
in today is called fitMedia.
It takes a sound sample
from your sound library
and places it into your song.
So let's see how it works.
To call a function,
you have to write its name.
So here it's fitMedia with a
lowercase f and an uppercase M.
Then you have to read
the parameters
between the parenthesis
separated by commas.
So fitMedia
has four parameters.
The sound sample
that you want to use,
the track where you want
to place your sound sample,
your start measure
and your end measure.
So let's review
these parameters in detail.
So I created a new script
to show you this example.
As usual we initialize the code
and finish it
and we set the tempo
which is the speed of the song.
Let’s write
our first fitMedia line.
Between the parenthesis
we're going to write
the four parameters.
The first one is the sound name
so it is just like which sound
you want to put in your song.
For this you can go
to your sound library
by clicking on the top icon
in the left bar
and listen to sounds.
Once you've found one
that you like,
you can copy its name
by clicking on the icon
to the right of the name
of the sound.
This will copy the name
where your cursor is.
So be careful not to copy it
in random places in your code
as it will create an error
when you try to run your code.
Now the second parameter
is the track.
The track is a line in your
digital audio workstation.
Usually you play similar sounds
on the same track
and you have one track for each
type of sound like percussion,
melodies, or other.
If a track is filled,
you can go to the next track
to add your sound.
Here as we don't have
any sounds yet,
we can use track number 1,
so I type 1.
The last two parameters
correspond to the start time
and end time of your sound.
Here we want to start from
the beginning so from Measure 1,
and we end at Measure 5.
When you run the code,
you'll see that our sound
has been placed on track 1
from Measure 1 to 5.
If you want to add
another sound,
just press return and
add a new fitMedia line
with the parameters
that you want.
And this concludes
our video about fitMedia.
Thank you for watching
and see you soon.